documentation/tutorial/tutorial.md, before:

# Official KTech Tutorial

Welcome to the official KTech tutorial!

This is my attempt at teaching a subject while putting everything into practice in an interactive fashion. Hopefully, by the end of this tutorial you'll not only know every aspect of KTech, but also have experience with every aspect of KTech. The latter can be as important as the former.

You also have to clone KTech's git repository and have your own working directory of it.

The best way to complete the tutorial is by changing it. The reason you should have your own local source files, is to make tweaking parameters, rearranging function calls, rewriting classes, and so on, as convenient as possible for you. If you don't get exactly how a function parameter affects your game: see it with your own eyes right here. Build the tutorial, run, change that parameter, build and run again, and exactly what are its implications.

I assume you know how to use the terminal and program some C++ code. When you come across something you don't know (that isn't about to be explained), pause, learn it, and only then come back; don't frustrate yourself and waste your time.

It's recommended that you take a short look and keep in mind the [Doxygen API reference](../../readme.md#documentation) while going through this tutorial. Since the tutorial can't and shouldn't behave like an API reference, you might find some functions and variables referenced here that feel like are missing some fuller explanation. The Doxygen API reference's mission is to provide exactly that.

## Chapters

The tutorial is separated into chapters, each one is a C++ source file that usually contains a heavily-commented example of functional KTech code. You should read the tutorial linearly if you are new to KTech; literally read the individual files from top to bottom, and the chapters in an ascending order.

1. [Introduction](1-introduction.cpp): building and running.
2. [World](2-world.cpp):
3. [Game Loop](3-game_loop.cpp)

Commit message:

Improve `3-game_loop.cpp` tutorial chapter.
Add `3-game_loop.cpp` tutorial chapter to tutorial's `premake5.lua` building configuraiton file.

Add missing chapter briefs to `tutorial.md`.

documentation/tutorial/tutorial.md, after:

# Official KTech Tutorial

Welcome to the official KTech tutorial!

This is my attempt at teaching a subject while putting everything into practice in an interactive fashion. Hopefully, by the end of this tutorial you'll not only know every aspect of KTech, but also have experience with every aspect of KTech. The latter can be as important as the former.

You also have to clone KTech's git repository and have your own working directory of it.

The best way to complete the tutorial is by changing it. The reason you should have your own local source files, is to make tweaking parameters, rearranging function calls, rewriting classes, and so on, as convenient as possible for you. If you don't get exactly how a function parameter affects your game: see it with your own eyes right here. Build the tutorial, run, change that parameter, build and run again, and exactly what are its implications.

I assume you know how to use the terminal and program some C++ code. When you come across something you don't know (that isn't about to be explained), pause, learn it, and only then come back; don't frustrate yourself and waste your time.

It's recommended that you take a short look and keep in mind the [Doxygen API reference](../../readme.md#documentation) while going through this tutorial. Since the tutorial can't and shouldn't behave like an API reference, you might find some functions and variables referenced here that feel like are missing some fuller explanation. The Doxygen API reference's mission is to provide exactly that.

## Chapters

The tutorial is separated into chapters, each one is a C++ source file that usually contains a heavily-commented example of functional KTech code. You should read the tutorial linearly if you are new to KTech; literally read the individual files from top to bottom, and the chapters in an ascending order.

1. [Introduction](1-introduction.cpp): building and running the tutorial's source files.
2. [World](2-world.cpp): become familiar with basic world hierarchy (`Map`, `Layer`, `Object` and `Camera`).
3. [Game Loop](3-game_loop.cpp): create a proper game loop that updates, renders and prints our world.
